---
layout: post
title: "Probabilistic Modeling for Disaster Policy Making"
author: "Sang-ri Yi"
categories: journal
tags: [Gin, Sangria, Madoyo, SammyJimmy]
image: RandomPhotos/OIMG_20210304_200120_789.jpg
---

### Literature

1. Markhvida, Maryia, et al. "Quantification of disaster impacts through household wellbeing losses." Nature Sustainability 3.7 (2020): 538-547. ([link](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41893-020-0508-7.pdf))

	* [Github link](https://github.com/mary-mark/wellbeing_model)

	* Disaster impacts are assessed by environmental (physical asset damage), economic (macro changes in production/employment), and *households' wellbeing (recovery household level)*

	* **A wealthy house hold recover quickly while a poor household suffer long-lasting impacts.**

	* Models
		- **Earthquake rupture and ground motion simulation** <br/> 
		Ground motion prediction equation <br/>
		[*Regional inventory -> IM*]
		- **Physical damage and direct asset loss modeling** <br/> 
		Fragility and loss functions  <br/>
		[*IM -> damage, loss*]
		- **Postdisaster economic recovery modelling**  <br/> 
		Adaptive Regional Input-output macro-economic model
			- Direct loss (Decrease in production, prop to asset losses). 
			- Secondary impact (Interdependent production matrix, e.g. lack of supply, overuse of resources, production is recovered by physical repair, employment prop to production outcome)  <br/>
		[*damage -> additional loss)*]
		- **Household wellbeing micro-simulation**  <br/>
		Socioeconomic resilience model + household labor income (income decreases if the industry production is affected by the disaster), rent and mortgage payments  <br/>
		[*loss -> equivalent wellbeing loss*]
			- **Household capital stock** = employment ($$\Delta$$) + investments + housing ($$\Delta$$)
			- **Household income** = labor ($$\Delta$$) + investment + housing ($$\Delta$$) - rent ($$\Delta$$)
			- **Household consumption** = income ($$\Delta$$) - mortgage (No more savings?)
			- **Household wellbeing** (constant relative risk aversion utility) is a function of consumption: $$ u(t) = \frac{c(t)^{1-\eta}}{1-\eta} $$, where $$\eta$$ is the elasticity of the utility consumption. US1$ has a higher utility for poorer individuals. <br/>
			- **Household wellbeing loss**  <br/>
			$$ \Delta W = \int^T_0{u_o-u(t)} e^{-\rho t}dt + \frac{du}{dc}(c_o) \Delta savings $$<br/>
			where $$\rho$$ is discount rate. Finally an equivalent consumption change is $$\Delta C_eq = \frac{\Delta W}{du/dc(c_{mean})} $$ 
			- **Reconstruction rate optimization and constraints** 

	* We want to advance the wellbeing (loss) model?


1. Walsh, Brian, and Stephane Hallegatte. "Measuring natural risks in the Philippines: socioeconomic resilience and wellbeing losses." Economics of Disasters and Climate Change 4.2 (2020): 249-293. ([link](https://openknowledge.worldbank.org/bitstream/handle/10986/31227/WPS8723.pdf?sequence=5&isAllowed=y))


	* Wealthy individuals have more asset to lose, and therefore their interests dominate in conventional risk assessments.

	* Poor individuals get higher income shocks and takes longer to recover.

	* Wellbeing loss accounts for <br/>
		- Ability to maintain consumption
		- Ability to save or borrow
		- Utility value per US1$

	* Inequality index as an objective for decision making? [article](https://www.milkenreview.org/articles/covid-19-and-global-income-inequality)

July 18, 2022

* Links
	- [Gas](https://openknowledge.worldbank.org/bitstream/handle/10986/31227/WPS8723.pdf?sequence=5&isAllowed=y)
	- [Philippines](https://academic.oup.com/jcle/article/3/3/357/775279?login=true)

* Three consumption elements
	- House repair 
	- Income loss
	- Increase in living cost
	
* Todo: (1) Check the available Matlab model, (2) How did they include the house savings?